the people of Gaza haven't had much to
eat since the War Began and now for the
first time the UN says a state of famine
is evident in Northern Gaza severe
restrictions have blocked food
deliveries Israel's constant bombardment
is further isolating more areas forcing
Palestinians to survive on leaves scraps
and food
handouts the head of the UN world food
program is renewing calls for a
humanitarian ceasefire when I can
explain to you is is that there is
famine full-blown famine in the north
and it's moving its way south and so
with what we're asking for and what we
continually ask for is is a ceasefire
and the ability to have unfettered
access uh to get in safe and unfettered
access to get into the uh into into Gaza
various ports and various various gate
Crossings uh but we you know it hasn't
always worked that way Israel has been
blocking most of the aid trucks from
coming in allowing only a trickle of Aid
to reach
Palestinians International efforts have
shifted to air dropping supplies but
that's insufficient and unsustainable to
meet the dire need on the ground it's
hard it's you know it it's it's so hard
to look at and it's so hard to hear also
so uh uh I'm just I'm I'm so hoping that
we can get a ceasefire and and begin to
to feed these people especially in the
north uh in a in a more in in a much
faster fashion but also including as I
said water uh sanitation medicine it's
all part of the famine the famine issue
and it's also something that we need to
make sure that the world understands we
can't let this happen the entire Gaza
population of 2.3 million people do not
have enough food and the crisis is
escalating each day children are
struggling the most
hospitals started reporting the first
deaths from starvation in early
March efforts to prevent famine hinge on
the ceasefire but a deal remains as
elusive as ever Axel zovic
aljer make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer